looks like we're live looks like we're
live okay so the first thing I kind of
want to figure out Actually I don't even
want to figure this out so where we end
up last time is I just wanted to print
this because this thing this thing is so
cool looking for me I don't know why I
just like it a lot and I realized last
time that that that taking the convex
hole of this object is not what I want
at all literally all I want to
do is I want to make sure
that actually I okay well let's just try
to okay so we have the STL let's just
try to load this into bamboo and see how
much it complains cuz I'm sure that it
has like weird things with
it I don't know why P mesh didn't
work how many stars does p mesh I really
don't like that it didn't work wait can
we just check that all right everything
looks
fine this has got to be bro yeah 2K star
oh
wow dude oh my
god
wow talk about a dead Library
bro let's see the issue
this just didn't work for
me uh maybe I don't know maybe it's one
of those libraries that just works and
doesn't need to be updated because it
just does what it
does all right so we're going to add an
STL here it's going to be in print Sim
right fun body baby you got a fun
body see but like
enable wait please reorient okay wait
let's go
back yeah look at that that's
terrible and actually can we do this
too okay so that's not so bad
we just need to make okay so why don't
we just do
this okay wait can I just open it
in all right let's do it in freeat I
just want to print this thing but I want
to take
that and I want to pad it I want to
create a sketch on there oh does that
did that work
on
here what the
hell I want to do it okay wait can I
just make a plane how do I just make a
plane map sketch
face is there no command pallet I think
I I think I even made an issue on
freead oh I'm not going to be signed
into GitHub that's okay
um is that how you spell
it P a l
[Music]
wait is it two
T's duplicate of
this popup command search yeah bro what
is the progress on this
dude are there linked PRS at
all that's probably the Mi biggest
missing piece of this thing to be quite
honest but I don't see any PRS
linked oh wow it's a plugin for
oh dude that's [__]
sick should I just I should be I should
sign into GitHub here should I save the
pass probably
not okay whatever we're we're
going should I try this bro I I kind of
want this thing how do I add it
search bar add-on add-on man
manager oh hey it's this thing is up now
dude okay that's great so wait let's
just do this um here
though all right so that's cool that's
good news so now we want to um
I wish I could search for the add-on
manager preferences
maybe
okay yeah I'll do that download macro
metadata I'll down I'll do
that hide add-ons Mark python 2 only
yeah for
sure
yeah okay so wait let's apply
that whoa what the [__] was that
about um okay so how do we do it we just
give it it
okay install from the
tools wait
tools add-on
manager okay here we go 3D printing
tools that's cool
all right so search
bar wait several issu
issues lots of seg faults during
development most of these should now but
save your work off
okay we're not going to be doing any
real work in this thing I feel like
uh so uh yeah so let's just do
it all right
cool so let me just restart freeat I
guess wait
what wait
what what the
hell okay we didn't change anything
dude okay so uh let's just open freecat
again all right is there a command to
pull it up or is it just at the top
that's my question so let's file open
recent
fun part
designer search is there a
search
design okay wait let's let's read this
thing wait okay you don't need this
right
[Music]
now the what's
this it didn't show up
bro it didn't show up for me
[Music]
wait okay I I am getting triggered bro
this doesn't do
anything where the [__] is the search
bar bro I literally just okay let me
just try to install it again let's
see okay can I filter by what I have
already
downloaded okay also why is this
downloading this thing again
they have some cam stuff that's pretty
[Music]
cool okay maybe I should turn off that
stupid setting uh search bar I feel like
this thing was not
installed holy [__] this thing is so
slow
okay then why didn't it show
up supposed to show up right
there a God damn
bro I really want it to all right [__]
it [__] it
who who cares okay
so what do we need to do we need to make
a
plane I have a okay wait does it tell me
like what this thing is that I'm
selecting
on it's an edge of an additive pipe
okay I want to make a plane on
this can I
datm plane it's a plane okay support
pipe Edge s okay can we try
that offset I don't want the offset I
just want this so can we try this
tangent to Edge dude what happened to my
what happened to my freak cat
bro what happened
here
whatever okay what if I just wait oh
wait wa
wait so wait so what dude what are the
map modes bro why is map mode um where
can I find the map modes okay we have
this now map mode fantastic okay so wait
let's go
to so what is this this is a a
plane
plane working plane so that's in the
drafting art wait what what is this this
is in part design
part design okay so we have to go here
first oh you know what though we have to
do
this okay now it should work yeah so
um wait why didn't this load
what the [__]
dude this stuff man freeat is like
driving me
crazy I mean this isn't so bad but like
I just don't know wa wait if I just go
into here no of course not I feel like
it's not loading
though okay wait can we just go back to
can we just do it in Chrome for a second
I'm going to break my rule but I mean it
should I mean the web server is clearly
running so I don't think
it's I don't know part
design wait is it it's part of part
design right how do I find part design
plain in this
documentation wait what is the type of
body part design. body so wait what can
I just search for body dude what I'm
so what is going
on what is going on
bro holy
[__] dude this documentation is so
ass okay wait
okay okay I feel like this is what I
want so now okay all right no what the
[__] bro
I what's in Sketcher no see it's
definitely just
not
right mesh seems to be good maybe I'm
just like
what about
part does part have a
body dude freead freead needs so much
work on it I mean that that's just
insane how do I find what the hell of
map mode is bro
how
do
oh I think we have datam plane so I
think I can just do this
[Music]
um okay
wait let's go to
freead
Source app
maybe what if I just search for map mode
wait can I just go
to okay Source okay this is actually it
that's all it is so just
app property
property oh my [__] god
standard then
line
400 and
65 fantastic okay wait can we just
okay I don't really care dude we'll go
down the freaking Rabbit Hole I don't I
just want to know what they are I I mean
this has come up so many
times no way dude what is causing that
sound
yeah I don't think I don't think so guys
you're not going to make sound at me
okay
um setting up this is going to be a
nightmare bro I just want to
know how to make a
plane should I just do a shallow
clown I know the install probably
actually has
it so maybe this was dumb but like like
whatever let's see if we can get any
insight into how this thing works at all
what is it called again um
um
property
standard and we need to set up our paths
what did it say 465
is not get full
name
property
okay property enumeration set
project what the
[__] okay wait can we just look at map
mode okay so this is all of the test
date wait oh wait no there's going to be
way more this thing is still running bro
map mode shows up all over the
place I think it's still going I don't
know okay so what we want to do is we
want to dude the open and editor
actually on the search is really
nice
um okay so what are we looking at we're
looking for part
design okay can we just do flat face
sketch that map Modi was flat face but I
still want to know what they are but I
don't really give a [__]
so yeah the the docks are just bad oh
[__]
um uh
um
sketch uh sketch object map
mode can we go here test part design
gooey okay makes a body
makes a box sketches on the face of the
Box let's just try to do
this we're going to have to do this
right going have to do this oh and of
course that because python it's a new
document just going to paste this in
here great oh yeah CU self
[__] God damn it
okay now that's
insane oh yeah okay never mind [__] it
whatever let's figure out where in the
oh there's there's
more okay here we go Source Mod part
design app
suggest map
modes so wait is flat face in here
okay surface R there's no docks on this
or what what are these twos in here man
wait oh yeah
okay e map mode strings
uh all we found them we found
them can we do
normal can we change it to
normal let's go back to
here so do we have this data
oh the tap
bro
okay okay wait self. sketch wait that's
not oh God
okay and control C doesn't kill this
okay there's so many random things going
on dude okay let's just see how easy
this this thing is going to be in on
shape this is going to be so easy
man fun
okay import it's going to be a mesh so
it's going to go uh uh it's going to be
a rust print Sim fun
body we could we could also actually
let's try to export a step from this
export oh
bro body
export step with colors
okay
um okay wait I actually want
to did we did we do it I don't know if
we did it oh we did we did this we we
have this but see this is a mesh I
actually kind of dude that looks sick
okay but no but I don't want to do that
I want to import the step file I
think bro why do they never show file
extensions it's like Windows is just
such
[__] file
extension like I just can't with these
people it should be a single body
cuz that's what it
is okay sick so now we can just do
plane edge of
import oh
dude hell yeah oh
wait wait
what it's all
good imported Parts contain faults
dude I don't I don't actually care we're
just going to do
plane
here
uh cannot resolve plane
is that cuz do we get a do we actually
get a um we get a diameter
there contains faulty
topology yeah but I like it I want it I
want it to have the faulty
topology so what if we just
like
[Music]
um okay if if we select this and this 30
so why don't we just do that and then
what's the depth in there we'll just go
we'll just go from that edge to that
edge so we're going to make a
plane okay it's going to be off
of um the right plane and it's going to
be
30 okay then we're going to take plane
one make a sketch go
normal going to use use
this and now we can just select this and
we can extrude it and we want to extrude
it uh not blind but up to face or we
can't do up to face can we do up
to um okay let's just do
blind flip it make it 60
how's
that it's not going to let me do this
because this crazy topology
man uh allow faulty
Parts yeah
bro that sucks
it's so lame to redesign it I kind of
liked it because it was so
glitchy uh but they obviously don't like
when you do that
yeah I don't think you can do anything
to make to resolve this to
fix
um on shape repair topology
combining surface but we don't
[Music]
have maybe we
can dude how much time do I I I really
want this fun looking object though I
like it all right let's just dude [__]
it okay create part Studio the diameter
was 10
right okay so
uh fck it
okay okay we're going to extrude
this by
okay now
how do we do this we need to know the
distance
oh oh wait can if I can take these two
circles okay the center distance Oh
that's oh dude the measurement is so
good I love on shape bro
okay so what we're going to do is we are
going to
draw a sketch on the right
plane okay we are going to add a circle
here we're going to make the distance
from here to here uh
15 this is going to be
D okay
now how far out does that go it goes out
15 well it goes out
15 but this is five so it goes out
wait let's think about
this um oh yeah I'm going to have to go
off stream for like 30 minutes cuz uh
I'm cuz I'm making moves cuz I'm doing
cool [__] and I can't be on the stream
because remind me at
12:45 to uh get on
Zoom got it I'll remind you today at
12:45
p.m. okay so
um so distance from the the center to
there okay so so no the center distance
15 so we just need to extrude at
15 uh so take so take oh my gosh
bro uh NOP we need to take the okay we
can do this sketch extrude oh nice that
works okay 15
though oh
wait uh surface no solid wait why didn't
that
work oh because I did a
dumbass how do you do this you select
other
face face of sketch two extrude that now
that's a 15 and that's a
solid so let's just delete
this oh I deleted the wrong
one oh wait wait can't I just take this
and do this okay
nice
great but now I don't know how to
add cuz this pipe thing is like
lame um I want this weird
tangent thing so if you have two Circle
what if I just do this if I have oh wait
okay wait let's just try that uh we're
going to do a
sweep so first we're going
to we're going to take this point and
we're going to take the center of
this okay so let's just do
sweep add
faces in the sweep path okay wait first
on this sketch or actually no wait
sketch on there and then we just need to
do point
and it's the
center okay and now
uh can we just make
an uh Arc I don't know if we can just
make an
arc I think we kind of have to do that
thing okay so how do we want to do this
we want to we have this
plane right
oh so we need to do it
on so wait we can we should be able to
do
plane not an offset plane well okay why
don't we just do an offset plane here
and it's going to be
five okay so now we can take this
sketch and now all we need to do we can
do
this I think uh I think we can use that
right cuz that intersects the
plane uh okay so we we want to make a
line oh
wait
wait that's not right oh you know what I
did actually this is
wrong I think we just want to use no so
this is wrong we just need to use this
plane the front plane so sketch
normal line
perpendicular we can do Q another
line down here okay now we want to make
an
arc tangent Arc oh wait no no
no tan
Arc here to here now that's it that's it
so we just want to
I think that's
it and then we should be able to just
mirror these features across so now we
wait why is this IL defined oh because
these
are what if I just do
this who really cares but now it's now
it's not going to complain to me so um
now we can do our sweep and we're going
to sweep this face to to this face with
this
path that doesn't look right though that
doesn't look nearly as cool
as
this how do you do
that H keep all tabbing
wait let's try a different uh so we're
going to go into this sketch and we're
actually going to
do
um probably to there is that
15 and is it perpendicular probably
okay so we can do this now we can do
this and instead of this Edge we should
be able to click this and
this and right see that's that's not
going to work because but is there a
thing of how to handle corners on a
sweep
oh dang bro I really want this part
should I just print it as it
is dude hell yeah let's just do it cuz I
want to get on to doing the the good
stuff no it's going to be so lame
though I wonder if there's a way to
touch up
the oh it's so it's so annoying
man why do I like this shape so much it
just looks so
cool it would actually be cooler if it
was like
um if it was like completely Hollow
so okay how do we do this how do we get
this
thing I mean like if you were to trace
okay wait let's just make a sketch
in this
plane and we're going to use
this how do we do
it so that gave me something but I
want I want that oh wait we have these
points okay so let's just do an arc
three-point
Arc okay so this is clearly
10 oh wait
um so let's do another
Arc but we want to I think do we have
this
point wait do we have the
arc okay there
there then is it it's still going to be
10 it's going to be 15
probably so maybe it's not tangent can
we just try to change it from
okay so first
off we're going to make a new arc and
just see if it's a different Arc so
cancel that go to this
sketch I feel
like uh we're going to do another Arc
we're going to go from here to here
it's the same Arc
bro it trying to do some weird tangency
thing can I delete
this but oh you know what it is though I
don't think a sweep is going to do it
because no it totally looks like a sweep
but the problem is okay wait it's so
hard to view this thing why is it so
hard to view this thing isn't there a
okay no I guess that's right I don't
know why it looks
different
um so then we have it so let's just
mirror these
features so we're going to take this
sweep we're going to delete oh [__] I
deleted
it oh
what bro actually there's so much create
like you could just design strange
looking objects and just print like I
mean visually interesting objects that
don't have any purpose it's kind of a
fun way to
wait what the
hell
what let's just undo this 10an Arc
okay so now we just want to do a a
mirror of features and it's going to
be this Extrusion and this
sweep
along oh wait we need to make a okay so
let's just do this we're going to roll
it
back we're going to do uh mirror uh
plane mirror plane
wait M mid
plane here here okay now we got it now
we can roll this forward do this mirror
plane plane
one okay but what we want to
do is um is there a way to mirror and
flip
because wait why didn't this
work cuz this looks
stupid so how do we take
this I mean maybe you could do some
weird thing where like the mirror
plane but that's so annoying
how do I flip these
features can I rotate a
feature ooh wait I kind of want to
revolve select solid
add faces and
sketch oh wait we need a
wait how do we get the full
thing create self intersecting part
okay how do I can I just
rotate features entities this mirror can
I select this mirror line
or is there a way to rotate features
because there does exist a plane where
if I if I mirror this over it I think it
will show up there how I want
it should I just do it
again all right this was such a
ridiculous side quest but I just want to
print this thing
out
for
e
for for
yeah man this whole random like free CAD
bug completely opened my eyes to the
this the idea of just creative CAD you
know just doing just designing something
that's visually
interesting um
can you not mirror
sketches you mirror an extrusion
right oh wait
wait oh you can
okay so that gets you started so now you
can take
this and it's a oh
crap okay then I want to
take uh
this
sketch do another when I do this I also
want to mirror this
too oh
wait um okay wait but oh but you don't
actually get the sketch that's kind of
the annoying part so whatever let's
um let's just do
this
um uh so do we have to do a u
wait wait oh no we just picked the wrong
plane we want this
plane we just
do but we don't why am I not getting a
center
here oh wait something was already
selected
oh you know what it is it's because of
this
[__] you make a line that goes out
and is
perpendicular and then you can do
tanar
okay now I can do
this okay now we can finish that sweep
this face this face sweet path this
path all right we did it now all I want
to
do
is
um wa I'm going to sketch on
here and I want to make this
uh and we need to be minus 4 right what
the hell dude what the
hell D minus 4 oh yeah I always forget
about
that so then that's two okay so then we
just need to do it on here so wait
finish this
this uh normal no what wrong wrong thing
buddy sketch normal
C uh
six we're done so now we can take this
this oh
[__] this this
sweep okay now we just need to use that
same path as
before get that and we're doing a
removal oh okay so wait let's make a
parameter here or variable this is going
to be in ID and this is going to be
[Music]
um8 so now we need to when we go to this
sketch this needs to be
ID oh my gosh bro oh my
user interfaces are so bad wait also oh
you know what
happened it's this
one okay
great oh wait and then how did this one
update oh it just
okay right
okay and we could just do a
um another thing here where we take this
and we extrude
it uh to face right up to face and we
click on this face and then we do a
remove all right um we just need to draw
the last sweep and then we can print
this thing out I hope it can be printed
without
supports kind of just a weird honestly
it looks like drug
paraphernalia maybe that's just my dirty
mind oh wait we did this wrong
okay and then which sketch is it that
did that it's this
one so now we just need to
do
sweep
this to
here
wait this face to here The Sweep path is
this and it's a
remove what the hell
bro it's probably
because wait can we just okay can we do
this so we have this Extrusion that just
went all the way through can we move
this up
here wait this should be up here
right this needs to move down here okay
so this so wait okay wait before we do
the oh wait the extrude needs to be down
here and then let's roll this
back all right so let's fix
this all right so we're taking this
circle and we're on that P okay so
that's all we
need now let's try to do this Extrusion
okay there we go we did
it we did
it and then I kind of want to make this
um instead of 60 can we make it
40 there some weird looking object bro I
love this thing why do I love it so much
it's just just
stupid what if we actually went in even
more and made it
30 all right now what if we take the
whole part and we revolve it
around this
line okay revolve can we do a part
revolve
okay I don't think it I don't think so
um I wonder to revolve the whole part
okay well anyways so that's that we came
up with this
weird
object let's see what happens if we make
d25 and
ID
um oh wait ID needs to be
23 and then this
let's
um okay let's go back to uh
10 and
eight and then I want to pull this in I
actually like the
30 all right cool we have some weird
shaped object I'm going to export
this and we're going to print it out and
the thing is uh again I actually saw
this thing is this problem has returned
where where the little poops that it
makes to like clear out the thing don't
correctly detach from the hot the hot
end so it like drags it around the bed
while it's PR
printing some and a lot of the times it
still prints successfully but it's like
that could cause major
issues
fun all right let's print that baby out
hopefully we can get it with no supports
hell
yeah cool
man just some weird looking
object okay now we can actually start
the day now that I've had this idea in
my head since like last night I don't
know it's just like I needed to do it
weird
freaking
geometry I wonder if you could
ah it's so mesmerizing it's not going to
come out like this though I'd have to
make it way bigger if it came to come
out like so smooth
and
whatnot okay that's enough of that let's
get back to learning the uh free CAD um
thing so let's just make a new
document
and okay so what is our task our task is
to oops
[Applause]
bro I kind of went in by last night in
class by handwriting this G-Code dude I
think I did it way better than everyone
else but like I was slower but like
I n maybe I did it the same as everyone
else and I'm just getting caught up but
like
I was starting to see I was starting to
see the way of G-Code just by
handwriting
it uh which is just like insane but you
know you got to go through it I feel
like once just so you know it's
up okay so the task is you have a line
segment from A to
B okay so let's just
um go to
here I think this is the one right this
is the one that got us pretty
close so this makes a
rectangle now these are weird right
because
oh wait let's see if that
documentation oh is it still did I close
it I feel like cuz it was just busted
right it didn't work
um uh let's look at the Cod
constraint with this object you can
handle sketches
you got to be in you got to be kidding
me
man oh my God I want to get blame on
that that's
insane Jurgen
bro
Jurgen whatever happened to
uran uh oh
well that's
funny dude he just disappeared man wait
dude that's so
funny wait he committed
all right well he's still doing
stuff yeah so he wrote the dock string
with this object you can handle sketches
so what is it
though constraint coincident and then
but like what are the arguments to it
that's what I want to
know class constraint so the we need to
look at the
Constructor I don't know python that
well
dude this is insane dot dot dot what the
fudge
okay let's not worry too much about this
let's just describe the problem okay so
the problem is as follows you have a
line segment equal to line segment from
A to B okay the where a a and b are
vectors okay now
now
um p is equal to
plane okay let's just write in English
[Music]
plane that
intersects a and is
perpendicular
to L
LS this fully constrains it right so if
we were to just open up
uh this
again I don't actually know if
uh I don't actually know if um you can
just make a
line or if you have to generate the
plane first in on shape I feel like you
I feel
like uh let's see
oh is there a way to make a line segment
from two 3D 3D vector
or whatever you know XYZ two a pair of
XYZ coordinates in on shape
see I don't think that's right like if I
go here let just make a sketch here and
let's do a
point um
I don't think it knows what the hell
it's talking
about I'm pretty sure with method
one uh if you
if you have an arbitrary set
points uh A and B that are both XYZ then
you need uh the sketch plane to
intersect both of the points before you
can actually draw a line that connects
the two points in
space okay so let's make the
plane so the first thing we want to do
let's just say that uh a is equal to 1 2
3 B is equal to uh uh minus 3
wait six and four okay whatever so now
we need a
plane so let's go
here make a a
plane okay plane
point oh but you have to select
them oh that's no
good point normal
it's surprisingly Harder Than You Think
to just make a line in space is there a
3D Sketcher cuz I think Fusion actually
has a 3D Sketcher
3D fit
spline projected curve bridging
curve curve
yeah it's kind of interesting
so okay so what we could do the brute
force method is
just I don't know is that going to be
buggy so okay so since you
what I'm what what I'm thinking about is
for each of the point cuz you need three
points to make the plane so and we only
have two points but I think the third
one is arbitrary and all we need to
do it's arbitrary to create the line seg
so anyways all we do is we create
two
planes uh and it doesn't
matter doesn't
matter what they
are as long
as
they uh
intersect a b
respectively so we have so we make uh
like P1
equals a
plane point a so we have
points a
b their Vector okay then uh then we do
P2 equals
plane
B uh I guess this is going to be like
three point planes and then
uh P3 is equal to just uh or we don't
need
P3 oh oh and then okay so here
here actually
get
sketch points uh AP and uh BP because
these are just vectors but I'm kind of
mixing whatever you guys get the idea uh
so now
then I what what goes wrong if Okay so
let's let's do this we're going to make
a sketch go normal normal normal hello
normal hello normal oh wait I'm dumb
okay
Point here we already have this point
but we're going to make another point
then we're going to make a point
here and
then we are going to try to make a plane
so the issue is if there's an overlap is
basically we need a way to find a point
that is not equal to a or b I
think for
okay whatever I feel like that generate
case is fine for right now uh
because I don't think any of the points
are really ever in real life going to
be um so let's just do this so now that
we have three points we want to make a
plane oh
wait what is that plane going to okay
let's just make a plane three point
plane we going to select this this and
this
and right it's the
same
thing oh yeah so we can just do offset
plane of
yeah yeah yeah yeah so okay so the pl so
these planes are just going to be 0 0 a
0 0 B so these are this is just a a
plane is just three points it's
literally that
simple okay so let's
um start
over and what we're going to do is we're
going to
make we're going to get AAL 1 2 3 so to
do
that we can just pick the first
coordinate so we're going to do we're
going to make a plane this is going to
be an offset plane we're going to take
this we're going to offset it by wait
what is our coordinate
system X so we're going to go to x
wait yeah let's do it the other way so
instead of that plane we're going to do
the right plane we're going to make a
plane offset and we're going to make it
offset by
one
right now we're going to make a sketch
on here we're going to go normal and
we're going to make a
point shift s okay now this point is
going to be
two so the distance from here to here is
going to be two and the distance from
here to here is going to be
three oh wait can we just do whatever I
I don't really care so that's that's
point
a now what we need to do is we need to
make a new
plane so uh oops oops
oops I love that it does doesn't just
make annoying sketches it like if you
don't do anything in a sketch it just
removes it so this is going to be minus
three oh wait three enter flip
okay now on here we're going to make a
sketch and we need to actually view it
from this
way okay and then this is going to be a
point
oops shift s point this is going to be
six and this is going to be
four okay so now we have our so now we
can make another
plane and it's going to be a three-point
plane and we can select the origin this
and
this okay now we have our plane that's
great but this is not the plane that we
want oh but this is the plane that we
want so we want to make a sketch on here
because now we can now we can
uh now we can make a
line wait
what
wait yeah that's what I was expecting
okay sick so now we want to make another
plane
and what what is it line point or
something line Point
normal that do it I don't think that did
it what is this plane oh
wait now that's it that's it so okay so
we did it so this
is sort of uh wait is it I can't tell if
it's
normal wait that's not what I want I
want I guess I want to view the normal
of I wish I could disable just yeah
these and actually this one and this
one okay now we just have the two planes
I think I think that they're
perpendicular it's kind of hard for me
to
tell but it's something like that I'm
pretty sure it's
right the thing that I didn't really
quite understand is if I just do
this yeah so you you do need
the
okay
so now we just need to do that in
freead but the thing about freead that's
kind of weird is I think that you can
just
um oh hey this is done let's go see if
it's completely Bor
up I'm kind of worried about it look at
that oh dude come on man I just cleaned
this
thing bro I need to
reorder I really don't want to clean
this thing
again e
whatever we just got to not worry about
it cuz they're not going to be printing
for a
minute okay
so
um and of course if you go
here and I just look up line segment it
doesn't show up with anything
because uh because why would it cuz why
would it why would this be a good
documentation I don't even know where it
l
lives can we look at the
code uh it was in
here part okay so in oh and part is the
one that just doesn't work dude if you
go to wait
part if you go to
part part
enums attachment editor basic shapes
maybe it's in basic
shapes shapes
tube feature what about line
segment wait that's not what I want to I
want to search in here line
segment but we don't we don't okay we
need to find C++
files line segment
Pi okay here we go this this looks like
this looks like something
okay um
see okay I'm confused though oh wait
this is the rectangle what we wanted to
look at was
this for
[Music]
okay so why don't we
just okay why don't we just do it the
method that I that I have we're going to
start from a new thing
okay so we're just going to go up
here and
basically we are going to I'm just going
to add that read
me whatever as a
comment
so
a is equal to so uh
where is Vector that's the problem is we
got to
keep app. Vector okay that's nice so
app. Vector of 1 2 3 B is equal to app.
Vector of minus 3 6 and 4 okay so now
what we want to do is we need to
actually learn how to make a
plane because
we need to define the
support
so dude freeads documentation is so bad
planes in
freecad okay this looks
promising creates a datm PL datum plane
which can be used as a reference for
sketches or other datum geometry
sketches can be attached to datm planes
yeah this is just Bing nonsense or what
bro
Bing can only be created inside a
body okay so wait so the first thing
really we have to do is we have to make
a
body then A and B then the
two planes
I wonder if you can just make a plane
from three
points I feel like this might allow you
to just set manually put in the
coordinates which would actually make
life a lot easier
so uh let's go into here and we're going
to do uh wait how can we explore this
thing we [__] can't hold
on where does plane live
bro I don't like
this this is why coding sucks cuz just
like just tell
me just like just like humans being
stupid as [__] bro
just like none of us know what we're
doing
um I am looking for okay I am looking
for part design
plane okay so what I want to do is I
want to go to start part
design I want to make a body let's
create a body okay now I don't want to
sketch I want a plane oh the search
bro it works create a
plane oh it doesn't
work does it work I can't
even uh obviously it doesn't work why
would I think it
works wait what about this no create a
datm plane that looks like
this okay
why not
wait dude I I'm I'm getting really
pissed off at freead holy
[__] but why
not these
erors God I just want to [__] punch
someone okay wait let just create a
sketch
sure okay do we have where did the
go I don't know where the sketch
went dude holy [__]
dude freak hasad just busted right now
right like this isn't me this is just
okay we're just going to start off part
design sketch we're not going to do the
body thing cuz I don't know I don't know
what that's about create a sketch on
this okay so that okay so let's undo I
want to create a body and I want to
create a sketch and I want to click this
okay so I don't really know oh wait
GC okay cool we we made a circle again
okay
great but now I want to make a
plane oh
sick oh look at this attachment mode
stuff okay
great plane by three
points how do I do it
though wait
rabit that's
not oh I
see yes a concentric plane yeah that's
that's right so wait so we don't oh and
it tells you the type that's kind of
cool oh okay wait wait wait okay wait
wait so I want to make a just an
arbitrary
Point wait what is is that
point create a datm point okay and I
just want to give a vert no not
vertex how do I just give an
XYZ in the gooey I just want to give an
XY Z how do I make a point
okay in free
how do I using the guey just make a
point in space with an XYZ
coordinate okay great so draft workbench
okay oh nice okay nice so this is going
to be one two 3
nice and does this can I make this live
inside the
body wait what is going on
here okay I don't really know but let's
make another point this is going to be B
and this is minus
three six and
four okay now we have these two points
and then we have the origin which is
probably not a point so let's make
another point and this is just going to
be 0 0
0 okay now what we want to do is we want
to switch back
to Heart
Design and we want to make a datum
plane and we want to
do three
points so
clear this we want plane by three points
whoa a
hummingbird okay reference
one can I select them in here
are we
good obviously they do this stupid
scroll thing whoever uses
that okay I think we I think there is
probably a way to do that all right so
now now that we have that plane
we can make a
line so now we want to make a line right
create a datum
line
between
uh what is it
one wait
reference copy point
what the freak
bro wait oh wait you know what we need
to do we need to take this plane and we
need to make a sketch on
it can we freaking delete this stupid
circle is that
this probably because we're in something
get delete okay there we go now what's
up with this weird coordinate thing that
I haven't seen before
okay so can I select these points
no why can't I select the points
actually can we just draw a line okay
can we draw a
line oh but now that we have the pl it
doesn't really matter we don't have to
do this stuff we can just we just put
this here in
here but actually what's up with these
points why is this one what is this
one oh wait
no we don't really let's see trying to
think about the geometry of it like we
don't really
know on the normal of this
where they live
right
um we also don't really know what
z0 is
right like for a three-point plane what
defines the
zero oh jeez dude this is is like way
more complicated than I thought I it
can't be this complicated it's got to be
simple I mean like I the whole proof the
whole thing that I want to do is
described in these like four lines of
pseudo code you have two points okay you
make a line in space between the two
points and then you make a plane that
intersects the first point and is
perpendicular to the line and we did it
in on
shape now we need to do it in
freecad okay so how about this the
problem is that there's so many these
classes and like like whatever these
things are workbenches that you don't
know how it all plays together that's
really where it's
confusing okay can we just try to do it
the way that we did it in um
what the hell which was the start
one why can't I make a new
document why can't I [__] make a new
document control n and it just doesn't
work yeah that's that's what I'm saying
bro
okay so let's just
say with freead
python show me how to give 3 XYZ
coordinat
and make a datum plane from
it I just feel like it's going to be
wrong
man doc okay part okay okay this
actually doesn't look crazy
please that would be so sick if this
works okay so we got the first three
points so let's
uh so all we need to do is uh
should we do o is the first
one let's do that
o
a
b so now this
errors dock that add object and this is
this is sort of where freeads python API
goes sort of out the window because you
have no introspection into what the hell
this is it's clearly C++ code I wonder
if I just search this in the source if I
can find any help about this at
all maybe oh yeah see this is not a
thing
right okay wait I'm actually not scared
of doing this okay so
okay it's just called
plane I don't think that this map mode
thing is going to
work okay so
let's do
this is it dude no way there's just no
way that's right it could
wait oh yeah see this is not
right yeah so pretty much all of what
the documentation is so bad the GPT is
hallucinating on literally every line so
the plane will be defined solely by
three
points the problem for me was okay when
we did it in
um here how did we do this we
um we went to the
draft thing I think actually though we
can just
oh why isn't it giv me me
tasks oh maybe it yeah maybe it'll give
me a tasks now okay so
now what did it
do add object part can if we go to
part it's all
different part design is what we want we
want to add a point okay so I think okay
so let's just see what Happ happens if I
place a
point these data points are all relative
though right oh no no no no
no but we need to make a vertex in the
guey so how do we do that can I just
select the origin
maybe selecting selecting selecting
I want to make a
Vertex sketch vertex color yeah that's
what I want thank you thank you thank
you thank you oh my God and the click
out doesn't disable it
that's new body
[Laughter]
yeah it's pretty [__] funny okay what
is going on
man okay let's just try to make a Vertex
so uh so do we have
body b equals
app. get object
right oh no don't you have to do get
active dude that's the problem is so for
freaking verbose uh so the wrong oh wait
this probably tells me Doc add object
self.
doc oh I
see yeah we can we can start to get this
good okay wait do we have
doc probably not okay wait let's just do
this because I want to write it out so
that I
remember so
D is equal to app Dot
active document and that's that
right so now d. add
object
okay part oh wait it's a string oh
that's that's that's where everything
goes wrong man
vertex and we're just going to call it
o p or a
and then oh wait wait wait uh can we
okay we're going to delete
this and we are going
to go up
to or a AV I don't know so now AV Dot
shape is equal to app.
vertex oh
Vex vertex
of uh 1 2 3 what what the heck just
happened
app has
no oh oh oh wait hold on no I'm I'm
actually being dumb as
hell type must be
shape okay so wait so let's write this
code out in a normal programming
language or environment so uh let's just
delete all of this
okay so we
have this is up here we actually let's
just put it all up there okay we're good
and we have the two
vectors let's make let's do
that optional for visualization purposes
shape must be type must be shape not
base. Vector okay
so just see what it
says probably has no idea what the hell
I'm talking about
though for
okay
cool but it's not part of a
body datam plans need to be part of a
body but that's
okay is there an active B is there a
doc. Active Body probably not
right it's probably just
like the selection or
something damn today's a grind of a day
the failure of the print man that's no
good okay so step one new Doc so we have
doc equals new Doc then we have
body equals new
body then we
have
um
uh
a equals add
point and this add point is
is and
is
is add a object of
type
PDP
Point
name then you set the
support uh so this is going to be
DP a okay so I think I'm ready to write
this thing
okay
so but don't you want it to be a Vertex
didn't this work
so wait why did this fail
wait wait is it where the type error
happens part vertex is that okay so
P2 of course it's the most ambiguous
thing you've ever seen
though no there's probably a field in
there wow it's a it's like a full dump
of whatever this thing is
think I'm going to make some
breakfast I think I need to relax I'm
getting so stressed out by
this I always just get so angry when
it's like
it's like so simple to just say it and
it's so hard to just do it it's
like why is it so hard I like I can
specify fully what I need to
do make a line between two points how
hard is
that
e
for
for for
okay
yeah I never really thought about what
defines the zero point of a sketch
plane especially if you give it three
point
like let's go back to on
shape um
I wonder if you could just dump out
what see but that's the is that the zero
point
um for
h
that
okay wait let's just start drawing a
bunch of triangles to figure out what's
going on
here okay
I have three points
o o the letter O that's at 0 it's the
origin then I have a which is at 1 2 3
and then I have B which is at minus 3
six and four
now um what I'm trying to figure out is
first off we make a plane that
intersects those three
points
um and what I want to figure out is
okay so so if if o is also but so now
we're starting a sketch on this uh on
this plane that intersects these three
points and so on this face if we set o
to also be the zero of the sketch
plane I basically want to know
what the coordinates what the 2D
coordinates of a and BR are on that
plane
[Music]
oh yeah you could also do
this right find the basest vectors of
the plane
right
yeah I don't really understand that
okay this is the part that's tough for
me once you have two
vectors but but um OA and O are not Oro
or not uh
perpendicular for
bro there's no way that's
right 100 what what are you talking
about
okay I guess there's two ways
well
um I'm pretty
sure for
all
oh
wait
for for
oh
wait I just is this right dude I feel
like there's no way this is right
these are the 2D coordinates of a and in
the plane where o is the origin of the
sketch
for
for for
well actually don't
this thing doesn't work oh there we go
um okay wait so
dude how am I so dumb but what is
the how to get the distance between two
yeah right that's what I
thought so why was I tripping out about
it
so
um okay
so we did it
yeah that's that's so there's just no
way
that there just
wait
wait oh it remembers it that's actually
really cool
dude why am I
I'm just going to relax this is
not productive to just be so stressed
out about
this just I'm just going to accept that
this is going to take some some
time instead of expecting to do this in
one
second it's my ego getting in the way
man it's my freaking
ego for
I don't even think I need to do all
this
for for
okay okay let's say we have points A and
B again and the origin
and let's say we also have some
reference plane on the XY
plane uh what I want to know is how do I
calculate the oiler angles to so that I
can um make the plane that intersects
both the origin and a and
b I hate these cross po I've never liked
cross product it always made no sense to
me for
dud geometry geometry is really
sick I can see why the Greeks love this
[__]
for
for for
[Music]
is
for for
okay so let's just go and try to I mean
ignore some of this general theory stuff
and just try to do it because I think
it's not going to be that hard
so let's see what do we have now we have
two we have three vectors and we make
vertices out of
that wait part.
vertex okay I think that this just
doesn't work
right no yeah so we get three
points okay so there we have three
points
now now we want to make the plane out of
three
points so how do we make a plane I think
I deleted that
code let's just look up three CAD
freead threo plane
dude Reddit is such cancer never use
reddit reddit is full of it's first it
[__] redit
okay wait we have the three points
right oh
no oh wait no no
no can I just delete all these no it's
going to ask me a bunch of nonsense
okay okay now what we want to do is we
want to make a
plane oh yeah
oh wait
oh wait first off we never wait
what did this ever
work is that a check mark
okay wait first we need to make a new
body how do we how do we make a new body
okay then instead
of doc. add object we want b. add object
can we try
this for
oh
boy for
I forget how did we do it
manually I think we did do it manually
right I got to try it again I can't
believe I can't remember
this okay
we went to part design we went to
draft think we went to
draft no we did
Point
okay so let's see
here this is going to so this all gooey
because nothing data wise has changed
this is going to be one
two three and uh what the dude oh my God
bro if you just accidentally go there
yeah great nice
design okay that's pretty easy okay
that's pretty easy
yeah let's uh go to the
bottom right
okay and they're unnamed right you can't
you can't name
on obviously it uh
yo this
whatever keep my cool bro keep my cool
all
right okay
so let's just rerun it
okay oh
yeah let's just try
this I am tweaking out bro what the
freak is there an a. set name
whatever okay
now make
okay no way oh it does work
okay okay that's nice I mean thank
God okay so what we want to
do this is going to be PE PE
okay
okay let's do this o to a o o o to B and
A to B
where can I see them
okay but there's no wait actually in
draft wait can I get out of this what is
going on how come I can't make a point
in draft
anymore oh great you can't even select
it God these [__] programs man
is there a plain object
okay so we
don't okay so now we want to move to
part
design great and we want to make a
plane okay so now we need to make a body
no attachment
hopefully this Returns the body
oh wait we can
do whatever I don't I don't
care okay so let's uh oh wait but we
don't we don't actually want to do this
we need to make sure this is right
can we just close oh wait I think this
is all good so makes a body
I think maybe I just canceled
it
[Music]
okay
for for
okay but I I don't think anything
happens right when
I I'm selecting
um what the hell
oh do I just look this first plane by
three
[Music]
points for
no map mode map mode there's a three
points playing map mode
so now we want to sketch on our plane
man now we want to draw take this thing
oh cancel that wait why did it
eror I don't I don't think that's
matters
I don't even know can you I would assume
you can make a sketch on a play but this
does not seem wait is it maybe it
is oh it picks the center point
maybe that be so
goofy oh
wow okay the next step is
to create a sketch let's see
okay so the support is set to the datam
plane I don't really know why that is
I think it's picking the center point I
don't know why these points aren't in my
sketch though oh because a sketch point
oh wait let's just see if we can
do
for for
okay so where are we at in this like
three hours already is we have made a
plane from three
points which is pretty cool but we
haven't actually we haven't even done
that
because we need to okay
so I'm getting the hang of this thing
man
okay so now P we double click on
this we turn this to plane by three
points now we select a
point right see I don't get
that how do I don't get
that oh my God I'm gonna [__] kill
someone what the hell are you talking
about attachment mode playing by three
points reference one selecting
Point see why does it only work when I
like get out of it then go back in
no make dependent
copy okay this is the whole
log wait this goes past where I want to
go this is going to be the
okay
wait where is reference wait what
what oh jeez
okay right so let's try it
again let start over
all
right wait
[__] I actually didn't need to do that
I'm just be
I'm getting [__] triggered oh wait
I don't understand I don't understand
you have to cancel it then you come back
in and then you can do it I don't I
don't
know I really have no idea why that is
but where is copy point
yeah that's that sucks so wait okay what
if we just try to how do I add what is
this okay do we have we have a no we
have AP
right okay AP is a type
of AP is a type of part
feature can I do body dot wait no b b do
add object
AP okay how do I
add AP is of type part feature
okay
so
I want to add so wait actually let's
just try to do this draft I'm in the
body now right I want to add a
point is that part of
the nope nope why would it be why
[__] would it be
so now I have no idea
how how to add
um wait what if I just circumvent this
whole
nonsense well the the point is okay wait
okay let's try this what is the type of
this
it's a part feature so how did they
add how do you add a part
feature I don't get it then b b.
addobject
wait what if I just do this wait um no
that doesn't
work what was it called part
design part
watch just going to call add
object does this work I really hope it
doesn't
work
I'm
[__] I'm [__] bugging
bro oh my God this is so
stupid this is so
stupid okay we have a body I want to add
a
point let's just do
this oh wait hold on okay wait hold
on wait no okay let's go to this one we
we're in the
body oh and part design is blanked out
for some reason who knows
why D I'm [__] determined though I'm
going to do this [__] it it even if it
takes literally all day I'm going to do
this cuz I'm sick
of not understanding
this okay wait let's
make let's make the body right after the
dock and can I do dock
dot oh
wait okay so in the
body we're in part design sick now now I
want to add a datm point and I want to I
want to
reference
this no dude no why why why why why why
did you make a copy I know it's asked me
but it doesn't tell me how you made the
copy what is the type of this this is a
part feature
this is a part
feature okay part
feature if I go to
part wait wait
wait for
that's sick that's
cool that's cool now yeah that's that's
cool bro
I'm genuinely bugging but this is
fine so wait let's just try to do b. add
okay how did it add the object b. add
object wait did this work or no
okay so wait
how do you make it a
Vertex how do you make it a vertex
oh yeah wait hold
on dude freak CAD sucks anyway this says
otherwise
I'm determined I got to do it I got to
do
it so what is the missing piece right
now we can make the three points and
then it like copies them into the body
so and as a part
feature as a part part
feature what does that even mean
bro okay let's just try to make a
wait it's not Doc it's going to be
B oh [__] I got to get ready for this
thing damn son it's already one all
right so I'm G to have to like I'm not
going to hop off stream I'm just going
to blank it
out damn bro
maybe it's good that I take a
break I'm going
to e
e
e e
um do I even want the crop I do want the
crop actually
transform no wait oh wait hold on
dude I thought I was going to be doing
something else these people are freaking
clowns man they don't give a
[__] um how do you do this filters it's
probably a
filter and a crop that's audio video
effect filters crop
pad oh yeah great there's no freaking
okay whatever let's do 500 oh
[__] all right 500 H 400
400 okay top
200 okay I actually like that it's tight
it's nice and
small uh actually I probably want it to
be just slightly
bigger like that that okay let's get
back to work dude I got all geared up to
do something
else okay let's Okay
so for
the problem is there's really no one you
can ask cuz GPT has no
idea and what are you going to ask a
human I don't really want to interact
with the devs of
this okay so we know how to make points
in the draft thing that was like really
straightforward but the problem is
that's not how things work the way thing
wait what's going on the the way things
work is
um you need
oh you
need Okay so let's try to just do this
from scratch how about
okay so now we have a body now we want
to make a datm point the problem with
datm point is there's actually no way
to to just give an XYZ here so I don't
think datm point is what we want
so just go back actually
wait okay so what does that mean that
uh that means okay I closed everything
else but
I'm glad I didn't end the stream bro
that would have been so
lame okay
okay I'm curious what this
does
uh yeah
that's that is why this stuff is so so
ridiculous um
okay
oh my gosh
all right whatever so let's see is there
any uh what was it it was part okay so
it's not part design it's
actually
part it's probably in
here BP part
test all right so searching in here find
in folder we want to find part Fe part
part feature
because that's what it did right
let's do
YZ oh wait how do we make a plane
create a datum
plane oh yeah obviously it doesn't work
obviously it doesn't [__] work oh oh
the search doesn't actually let you do
anything that's
fun
um wait what was I going to do I wanted
to make a datum
plane okay here we go
dude I I'm I got to take a break I'm not
happy with this at all how do you just
add a point that's what I want to know
in freead I would like to
have python make a document then a body
and then make three points in that body
and I don't think you can just do
add I don't know it's it seems like
there's a weird way to do it
but
basically I
need well okay and I'll also say this
the three points are first call it just
o capital O capital B and capital A O is
going to be 0 0 0 it's the origin a is
going to be 1 2 3 and b is going to be
minus
3 6 and four
I already don't think that's right I
already don't think that's
right in line three of
it part design body what did it
say part
feature pretty sure this doesn't even
work okay so great it's actually up
setting that it works
because what's the difference between
that and this
oh wait for
real oh [__] wait okay so wait hold
on so wait okay wait so um
what oh wait wait what
what does that mean
yeah obviously it didn't do
it that's just cuz
Okay about
this this is the line that actually does
something and obviously didn't
wait where's the other guy wait also
where are
these where are
these it oh dude this program is so bad
it's driving me
insane I hate free CAD
I just want
I know it's not going to work why do why
do I even
try dude freak CAD
sucks I always like to Google this so I
can
yeah because of poor language design oh
yeah
freak
it but we're going to do it we're going
to do
it I know it's not going to
work oh
wait it did
work what what did it do oh there's a
part design Point see there's no
interest inpection these strings anybody
that's passing around strings in code
you got to be
suspicious cuz strings are like the
worst data type use an enum or something
use something where you can attach
metadata about it so that the user
that's typing this in knows what the
hell they're doing cuz this is just
random
stuff
okay this is great this is great now now
now why is this gray out I have no
idea wait what
happened wait I'm so confused what
happened we're in document 4 we're in
the body okay okay we're in the body all
right we're good now
plane three plane by three
points oh
baby
what heck
[Music]
yeah oh yeah oh yeah oh yeah oh oh yeah
we did it we did it this is
it it just took a lot of freaking
grinding but that is what we need to do
that is it okay so now we want to create
we're going to
okay is there a normal button I don't
know if there's a normal button we're
going to select this we're going to
create a
sketch okay
now how does it
Define it's probably just in that
placement thing
right oh wait so now we just need to
okay wait wait before I get ahead of
myself we need to do
this can we okay wait can we do this
wait but I'm so
confused
for for
uh okay so the next steps
are sketch
on oh wait make datam plane from three
points sketch on there draw the line
from A to B my problem is that I don't
get those points as clickable points
right
so can I select the
points or maybe I can circumvent this
whole thing
why does it seem like that just doesn't
go through the points at all
oh there it
is okay how do I see the planes
okay yeah
nice and wait I want to now all right
let's make the
uh sick okay hell yeah
how do you hide it how do you hide it
toggle visibility I saw
it wait that's not even what I wanted
bro whatever okay
what is up with
that what is up with that the line
doesn't even go through the
points what
why am
I oh yeah great
I don't understand why the line
literally doesn't even go through this
thing it
doesn't okay
how do I hide
this okay it doesn't matter we click
this we make a sketch
the simplest way to make a line segment
between two arbitrary 3D points in free
CAD with
python was that it that would be nice
that would be
nice great that's actually what we
want that's so much better dude
hell
yeah I wonder okay I wonder if we can
now do make a datam
plane yeah we'll need to put it in a
body
right
um dude wait that's it
wait that doesn't look right does
it maybe that's
it
okay I was just trying to do really like
random stuff to get it
done okay so we still have this weird
copy thing but I feel like
I
think I forget how it did
it not this right it was
um instead of a body it made it a um a
a feature
something yeah I think it made it a
feature
okay so whatever let's select
this new
sketch
gr
close
wait
now wait now we want to do a where is it
additive
pipe oh
cool wait the no
wait no no no this is going to be
this do it give me a preview or
the best kind of
error oh you know what it
is
wait how do I hide the datm plane
the I don't know how
to had to hide someone
okay wait
um what did we call the
plane we don't have it
um right click and do hide object
oh
space wait but do we no but see that the
problem with that oh yeah I'm going to
freak out
bro because this
sketch so now
wait
what why can't I
dude I hate freeat it's so
stupid wait no wait wait wait wait
wait there's one
more okay now let's make the
plane part design create
body um
that's cool now we want to make a PL a
datm plane is that right yes we do we
just want to select this line and we
want to normal to Edge isn't that
right it doesn't really say which oh is
there a
flip
no how do we get get this point
okay okay that's not so bad and if I do
this it fails that's just because we
have to do
this and just delete that okay
so you can't do
oh okay
okay whatever can we just okay dude see
that's the problem is that there's so
much random stuff to
try okay we have the line segment and
it's um whatever now we're going to make
a datum plane and it's going to create
the body
and we selected the line segment and now
we just have to say normal to
Edge and that only I think that only
works wait can we okay let's modify this
code we're going to make this again our
one 2
3 -
3 6 and
4 okay so we're going to do this
oh there it is it takes it sometime
sometimes it takes some
time um okay so now we want to make a
datm plane create new body selecting
this
normal and then I actually want to click
on this point
so we just need a special case whether
or not the one of the vertices of the
uh line segment is at the
origin okay so this is what it did
H this copy thing is crazy though I I
thought I'm pretty sure there's a way to
get around
that bro I don't even care bro I'll pick
my
nose
damn okay okay let's just get the sweep
down so wait let's um
okay now we're going to select this make
a
sketch make a rectangle
close additive
pipe where's my
sketch oh
damn it [__]
go this thing is so stupid man
why I thought I had it bro I really
thought I had it damn yeah wait hold on
can we do
this you need to add the edge you need
to add the edge bro oh my God it's so
beautiful I so close and I knew I was so
close and I figured it
out so you can't just okay yeah that's
just cuz the design of the freead like
python API is just like a bunch of
spaghetti it's like that's that's
just okay so we did it we just need to
get over these stupid copies and look at
this look at this beautiful
sweep this is the start of something
great
there's literally so much more to go
though
[Music]
how do I make a plane between three
arbitrary points in on
shape no I want to I want to define the
points uh with coordinates I don't the
points don't exist
yet wow yeah so it does recommend sketch
for each point
we could make a custom
feature I mean I really want to get this
done in freecad
first for
okay it's just unfortunate that there's
no
documentation it's just really
unfortunate there's no documentation
whatever I mean this this thing just
doesn't
work part
feature doesn't
even there's no search or anything
okay so I want to save this one
though working or sweep
manual so we did
it wait wait wait wait oh no that's
fine oh but it's going to be insane
having to create that all right the
performance of this is going to be
really bad
really really
bad it's okay we just got to get it
working then we'll fix it
ah
you
okay I'm turning off my phone and we're
going to uh figure out how do we how do
we do this without those copy things
because I have no idea or
rather okay
let's just do
this okay we know how to do this now
we're we're Pros
it's going to take a while to
um oh yeah wait what
dude
what okay you got this line segment now
you want to make a plane create a body
selecting
this
point the normal to Edge so this sort of
works but we need to do this why doesn't
that
work okay wait let's delete this
no but like why does it feel like
it's why does it feel like this thing is
like uh torturing
me we got normal to Edge
I'm pretty sure we do want plane by
three
points wait but okay why does it
erir but it makes the plane it airs but
it makes the plane dude what are you
talking about you [__] fool
I will destroy you do you understand I
will destroy you
fread do you under oh and you can't
select it though
okay I just delete this the thing is
that's not even right
though oh my God and now it works this
is the the most confusing [__] we're
going to do it all over again delete
datum plane create new body okay now we
are going to
select plane by three points we select
this and
this and it works no it doesn't no it
doesn't sorry
bud oh wait now we're good
so now we can take this
sketch
wrecked additive
pipe
uh I guess
so and we did
it one more time we did it
I mean it really gets down to like what
is user interfaces and experiences cuz
it's
like you feel like you're doing the
exact same thing over and over again but
every time there's like a little thing
that pops out that's different and it's
just like so confusing so we're going to
try this one thing we're going to do it
one more time just so we have it locked
down know exactly what button to press
every freaking time
because I am
bugging I am literally bugging family I
am
bugging
bogging okay so we have the line segment
but it's hidden because even though we
did doc.
recompute it didn't like to recompute it
didn't want to it didn't want to do
anything didn't want to do anything all
right so now we click on no normal to
Edge then we click on this line then we
click on and just for the sake of um
whatever we're going to click on this
point oh
wait
uh [__] what
okay the answer is normal to Edge it's
not playing by three points it's it's
it's normal it's
normal I get it it's normal to Edge
we're going to try it one more
time delete oh great you can't even
delete
it I hate this program
dude one of these days Alice one of
these these
days should I should I be quoting that
maybe that's like not
allowed okay normal to Edge
selecting
this yeah for some reason it tries to
switch you but uh
okay so where
okay so we need to make a
body and within the body we need to make
a
yeah that's dude this program was
made that's this program is an open-
Source program that's what I'll say it's
one of these things where like there
isn't really I mean even if there's dude
I don't know I don't know it just like
it's just so confusing and why is
this wait what
happened wait
what what happened what happened bro
[__] [__] why did it bro why did it
not why did it stop working
I feel like I'm just running into a lot
of
bugs what happened
bro I bet if you hover over
this oh wait did it did it give me a
doct string
we're getting
close we're getting close I now know
exactly how to get the
sweep in freead with the gooey the next
step is with python and then once we do
that we can finally go back
to correctly finding all of the path
segments all of the line segments that
we need to create that we will then
sweep and then we will have freaking
step to G-Code to
step the full
circle
for for
okay but if you think about it
I know that there are cases where the
extruder is moving and then it switches
to another layer but it's it's still
printing that whole way so the paths are
not
exclusive on one
layer but
I'm just trying to think about cuz I I'm
pretty sure that Fusion has a 3D sketch
tool so I was just wondering like
maybe that would be the
easiest way I I don't think onap even
has
that cuz I'm just trying to think about
how once we're done with this how we're
going to get it into programs that I
actually want to
use the thing about freead that would be
cool is I think I might be able to
do literally like end to end like give
it a step file that shells out to Bamboo
Studio slicer and then and then the
output of that goes directly as
input
um well into the the like pre-processor
whatever the the the thing that takes
the G-Code and actually generates the
path segments but then into freead
without even having a gooey open because
I I remember I I feel like I looked that
up on the last
stream and it would be really great then
because
then then it's just really fast the
problem is well whatever so that's what
I'm thinking but I definitely want to
make the plan is still to add on shape
and fusion support for this
task because
uh I don't know there's a number of
reasons but I think it would teach me a
lot about CAD
too
[Music]
for
for for
okay
so so wait so okay so what is so how do
I get this object I do doc.
getet
doc app. active active document is
D d. Active object.
Body what is that
oh it just makes it
as oh
really okay it's a part feature so wait
can I do d. add
object part part
feature
boobies so how do they add them that's
what I want to know how did they create
create
this is not a document object type what
is a document object type bro let okay
let's let's go back and let's just read
some some more python
freab where was that video that I was
watching yesterday I feel like it didn't
include anything I wanted to be honest
wait is it just called
feature oh my gosh bro I'm so [__]
why do they have why bro that's so
insane
what the hell all right but we have
boobies now but now I want to do I want
to do B B is equal to uh doc. body b.
add
object of boobies
wait wait
I don't think this works
right the error messages is is the worst
part for sure they they just make no
sense
okay so how do
we how do you like get this in there
wait
what what
what is this this makes no sense get
document wait first off what is get
document okay let's go to the source
code can I look up def get document
where is this where is it what where is
this I am so sick of this that's what
I'm saying is I hate this I hate when
they do this interop between C++ and
python because it's like completely
obfuscated
what these things
do and that and then exactly and then
they just shell out the error to a
completely
oh oh my
God this is the whole documentation of
that is it's just the type oh y y
bro burn freead to the ground man Burn
It To The Ground start over this ain't
it
fam I don't care so what does that even
mean
the document objects
so this is what I don't understand why
is it called get
document it's just so
goofy for
okay
okay okay
okay so
uh
okay oh
okay that was actually a helpful
read it still doesn't answer why there's
a function called get document
which
like okay hold on let's just do
this
app. active document this returns a
document now Doc is the same thing Doc
do uh get
document wait no it was app.get document
oh that's so silly wait why did it do
that wait why did it do that that's so
funny I the code generated out of this
thing is a little like random
but okay I think that I think that I see
the path forward the path forward
is
first
DOC do add
object part
feature
body and this is
B then we need to
say so this is just
that but what we want to do
is we want to
add the
object to the
body I don't know can we just do B do
add object line
shape all right so this should all work
it's your body and we have line segment
now what I want to do is this and I
don't think this will work
okay all right wait hold on
it did make a
body so this is part design so wait can
we do
this for
oh
wait ah damn it I thought that one was
going to do
it so oh wait wait hold on hold on hold
on hold
on what is this
wait okay wait hold
on wait but this is a dude what that's
what I'm saying that's so confusing it's
cuz like why is it that when I did it
it but when it did it and the thing is
there's like no way to okay let's just
dump it cs. content it's just so
impossible to read this
thing they made this oh dude this
program is for [__] idiots and I am
Numero
Uno this doesn't even say I don't think
wait there's no edges in this thing wait
what is
this for
[Music]
yeah it tries to like it like tries to
like change it but it but but that's
dumb you just have to be
smart okay you selected geometries which
are not part of the Active Body please
define how to handle those selections
oh this actually has no edges okay so
let's just say
CLS is equal
to app. active document. get
object uh copy line
segment CLS cs. shape. edges no edges
but
why it
wait wait now I'm
confused
whoa I don't see how that that's so what
is this
thing wait why did this fail
actually oh you know what I did don't I
have
to no that's in the
sweep wait I don't even I don't how did
this stop this was
working let's run it
again and let's just see okay so we have
a line it's I know it doesn't show it
but that's just cuz pread sucks but oh
wait what is this this is the shape what
is
this create a new shape
binder in order to use part design you
need to you need an active body in the
document
okay what is a shape binder
oh we need to just create one of
these
right all right I I I would need to read
all this but this is a
lot whatever let's cancel this we're
going to make our plane create the body
okay we're going to select this point to
wait this point also normal to Edge okay
make independent copy so now everything
is Chill everything is chill as heck but
when I like do
something if
okay why did it why is it doing this oh
my
god I didn't even do anything man and
you can't go back bro this program is
for [__]
obviously it made more
copies if I delete
these wait what
I'm
tweaking
for for
[Music]
to be fair I've never built a software
project this big so it's like can I
really
complain yes yes I can because I have to
live at this all right I mean I mean uh
I mean let's just delete this whole
thing plane create new
body this guy this guy normal to Edge
okay okay sketch
they oh nice
okay now we select this sketch wait oh
this see this heart has null
shape but I'm pretty sure that the um
so it's still works even
though attach engine 3D says the part
has null
shape for
yeah bro okay
all right so we need to okay we need to
do what
now that okay this gets us the
line let's make a body so we're going to
make a
body okay now in this body we want to
add a
bro this sh is really testing me
today
um add line segment object to body free
CAD
how how do we how do we actually do it
that's the thing that's kind of weird
right is
we wait oh wait you know what we could
do can we
do
uh shape binder
let's see if this
works oh and it's in the body I don't
know how wait no it's
not oh wait can we do like sb. parent
okay
um got to turn on my phone real
quick oh and I guess this isn't
yeah
e
e for
I I almost guarantee this doesn't
work
oh shape binders are allowed okay yeah
fair
enough sweet
it's going to still ask me for the copy
I'm almost
positive
wait is adding a line segment at allowed
as a child of a body
okay but uh
okay but if I want to do that then I
need to make a
plane with three points
I just don't know why why copied it
again bro
I oh wait can I wait actually hold
on hold on hold on hold on hold on hold
on we're going to we're going to okay
hold on bro I bro I see a path I see a
path okay so the first thing shape
binder okay it's not you can select po
end points here so it
object
this okay now we're going to make a new
shape
binder
object
this now datum plane selecting shape
binder shape binder
2 normal
to 3
wait oh wait why does it think actually
that this is a line
it's not
though when you make a shape binder I
want to add geometry of
this
oh okay wait and then in this add
geometry this Edge one
okay okay
um datm
plane we are going to select shape
binder
and
two normal yes we did it we did it we
did
it okay so that's what we have to
do okay we are making progress we're
making mad freaking progress so we've
now avoided
okay so
now so you make the line seg you make
the body you make two SBS and then you
make um Edge one the geometry of the
first SB and you make vertex one okay we
are all good
bro I think I think we I think we're
ready
[Music]
for
for for
this
yeah a lot of I
was 2000 that's so
many
for
for for
okay okay let's get it so let's just
figure out how it added
geometry okay so where are we at here a
shape bind okay so let's do
this sb.
add property okay
wait uh no I'd rather do the shape
binder method but I'm wondering how do I
add geometry in the guey it lets me
click on some geometry to add because I
have a line segment and basically I need
to make two shape binders one of the
shape binders is Edge one and the other
one is vertex one
yeah show me how to do it in Python
this is not going to
work I don't I think that that fails
let's just check that I'm almost
positive that
fails
yeah but that's okay
where are the shape
binders where are the shape binders
everybody grab a
that's [__] awesome
wait
oh it
works okay so now we need to
add wait hold on
great this code works but now I want to
add a data plane
to the
body and I want the map method I think
it's called map method but basically the
attachment the the way it uh resolves
everything to be normal to Edge and then
I want the two pieces of GE omry that it
uses as reference to be uh both of the
shape
binders we are getting very
close it's crazy how long this took me
bro
if this works I'm going to freak out if
this works I'm I'm going to be like so
happy we [__] did it Brothers we
[__] did it we did it I don't know
why it took me so long bro all right now
let's get the sweep let's get the
[__]
[Laughter]
sweep oh let's go let's go all right so
now now that this thing
works
amazing now sketch on the datm plan
plane and just make a rectangle that's
like first off centered around the
origin of the datm plane or
uh let just do a little test and
see
um let's just see if we sketch on wait
wait for some reason we don't
have um
um oh wait we need to make the datm
plane a part of the body I think
right we need the datm plane to be a
part of the body but besides that should
be good
so the next part is make a sketch on the
datum plane that is a rectangle
that is first off centered around the
origin and is of width 4 mm and height
uh 2
mm dude we are so
ready this thing is getting so
close let's go it's go let's go let's go
let's go I'm so excited D I can't
believe I spent like
what is this day three on this
now hey I'll be on my way I'll be back
from
[Music]
around wait do we have a do we actually
have a sketch oh wait first off I think
we need to activate the body
maybe we
don't is there a sketch there is a
sketch wait the
sketch what is the code
here so this did not
work can I try this
I don't know why that would be I I feel
like that's not going to work but let's
just try
that okay when we okay let's just we're
at we're in the body we click new
sketch and then we do this
what code did that
run that made sketch O2
right get object body new
object okay Sketcher sketch
object support
equals get object data plane
map mode flat face I think that's
probably the part that we
missed so we just need to do sketch. map
mode equals flat face I'm pretty sure
that that will do it wait so we want to
actually
undo
this and then this is an empty list but
I feel like that's not going to
matter and then we just need to do
sketch do map mode equals flat
face okay so we are just going to
run all of this over
again um it doesn't seem to be
adding
the body oh wait did I just not run
that
nice okay now if I double click this
[Music]
wow wow buddy so I think that this all
fails for some reason we'll have to read
into how Sketcher
works
yeah if we hover over
this it's just called sketch or create
line can we try this
what I I I I I
wait wait okay wait let's just try this
what happens when I do
that okay it's just going to be add
geometry
of
yeah great so it's it's literally
just
that let's hit that recompute and see
our the fruits of our
labor baby I am uh literally the goat I
am a goat okay wait so all right so this
code Works let's just run
it check it
out check it
out check it out okay so now all we need
to do
is additive pipe and honestly all we
really need is an
extrude I wonder how it's going
to because okay let's say that things
are like let's say there's an angle like
this this going to end normal here so
there's going to be a little V there so
we actually do
need we can't just add a bunch of
segments because we need the
sweep
H okay well we'll see how this goes but
I I see a problem with just doing
individual line segment
ments but all right let's uh let's at
least get the
pipe okay we'll see the code at the end
so and then all we need to do is
this shape binder Edge and Edge
one that's it that's it that's our super
duper sick code so it's going to
be uh get object
wait for
okay then all we need to do
is it's going to be SB
wait yeah it's going to be
wait boys this is it
what
happened why didn't it do
it
oh hey let's go let's go let's go okay
we're we're we're ready we're ready
we're ready let's go
why do this thing always go over to
this
[Music]
for for
yeah oh okay all right so we did the 0
to one now we need the 1 to two and then
we should be good it's like induction
it's like
induction see what time is it man Okay
it's 3 it only took me 5 hours to make a
to make a
little
for for
does it need the
body great now we just need one highle
function that will basically allow us to
take two points and uh and sweep or what
they call additive pipe I think between
the two points with that that profile
that we
defined uh so do that and then the
second thing is add a third point that
is not collinear with the line segment
between 0.1 and 2 and then call the
function to make the uh additive pipe
between 0.1 and two and then two and
three all right 0 to one Bros 0 to one
is
done oh my God
okay if this works I'm going to geek out
dude I really want this to
work oh yeah wait
I think you broke something this is the
last code that
worked I think you broke something this
is the last code that worked
this guy sucks man let's just uh let's
just fix the
problem okay uh where where is this uh
Sketcher
thing what does this need to be this
just needs to be
change that to part I
think
okay oh
wow cool dude wait we should print
something like this that's cool all
right that be funny to print the
reconstructed it
like that's
funny all right so now let's
um it's okay I fixed it can you just
make some code to generate
some uh like a fun PA I don't know how
we need to come up with a path
now well we have the G-Code let's just
do the G-Code
I think I think I want to start with
circle because I want to see how janked
up circle is and then what we want to do
is we want to
change
[Music]
um this to
be not 4 mm but4 mm and the height is2
mm okay let's run it
again wait
that is so cool
man but yeah I don't know how I'm going
to
okay now I want to
take what these are both part of the
same
body oh they
are that's
nice all right dude hell yeah let's just
let's just
um write some code to generate um
vertices within uh like a 100 by 100 by
100 uh thing but uh centered around
zero uh so that I can test this piping
stuff sick
does it make a vector
okay does it did it do the thing for
me okay now write the code to generate
like 50 of them oh all right now write
the code to generate like 50 of them
that's what I wanted
50 might have been a little
aggressive it's not
responding it'll work it'll work you
just got to let it churn
Dang if this is how slow 50 is man
there's like 10,000 g1s in
each for
[Music]
okay maybe it's maybe it maybe the maybe
it cooked
let's force quit
this let's make five
oh wait
um how do you recompute oh is it doc.
recompute what
wait why didn't it
work oh body
wait
why what
was it
seven wait but why is there nothing in
it like why is it not doing
anything let's go back to this
one okay great
okay that's
incredible we just need
to for
I'm planning on
okay yeah it's pretty good so let's go
back all
right
fantastic
for for
does that work
wait
[__] it we're going to go back to eight
I think
wait oh
oh wait do we want to make a new body we
should probably make a new body for each
of
these is it optional it's probably
optional okay
okay now we just need to
call make pipe doc
.1.2
doc oh it did okay but it didn't work
I don't understand why it didn't
work oh
yeah yeah what the
hell what what
why I don't understand dude if I comment
this out and I take this
here I just do this oh wait is it cuz
I'm not calling it bro I'm so annoying
it's cuz I'm not calling
it
perfect we just need to change um this
what up
here how do you do these things
okay this is the
one not too shabby and we have two
bodies but we have three bodies is I
don't know what that body is we want to
take this body and this body and we want
to combine
them
[Music]
for
for for
spe
for
for for
all right so try to make some
food I'll make some food and then we can
come back we can take this Co so all
right so first let's just be like haha
funny
haha eight TR
haha all right now we can now we can
just delete everything but
eight uh yeah can delete these
two slice and parse I don't know I'll
keep that
in
um let's delete this what is this
this is the code that I wrote this was
actually good this oh this
was I can't
remember what is all this can we just
delete all this we don't need this
anymore
right yeah we don't need any of
that it's cuz probably because open and
something
all right sick now we're back to gcode
and
this uh let's just write
some this repo aims to recreate this
paper which takes a step file
calls an what uh a standard slicer then
uses the
outputed gcode to
reconstruct a 3D model using a sequence
of
sweeps with a specified
profile
effectively this step to G good to step
the aim is to
improve the quality of FEA simulations
of fdm 3D printed
Parts ma m
stuff
okay all right
clean I can't believe it took uh 6 hours
just to do
that okay I'll probably be back in like
30 minutes with food chill for a little
bit
do I even need to eat I'm just tired
that was exhausting
honestly just fighting Kai or uh freead
for like six
hours and I'm sure we'll have to do it
again when we uh cuz it's going to
create like uh we need to time it and
then performance bro we
like I don't know how they got it so
fast
yeah let's add let's add the to-dos
here make work
with um yeah so wait let's just say the
uh goal is to allow users
to
use pretty much any
slicer and pretty much any
CAD since the method is pretty agnostic
to which
CAD you
use to
do okay so the real things to do we need
to fix the
um fix the path or what is called line
seg
generation from
gcode time well see if we can get the
test
cases
to work in
freecad uh add the
combining of the
individual additive
uh
sweeps add the combining of the
individual sweeps as they
generate
um
seate bodies yeah cuz I I kind of want
to do a a demo today of the
full um
the full
pipeline into single
body that should be pretty simple but I
don't
know then
um add the freead code to
export the mod model the single body
at part I don't know what you call it as
a step
file load the step
into Fusion do a
simuation a simul
Latino that's actually so funny simul
Latino I'm keeping that in all right
Todo
list got a lot of [__] to do
let's see has anybody even watched this
thing bro 50 views that's not bad that's
not bad for me we got a lot more to do
though
so I'm not too
worried all right so I'm going to keep
this up
[Music]
all
right e
for
e
for for
the
what
[Music]
for
e
e for
for
for e
okay food
acquired holy hell bro what a day
man for
kind of want to see what he did the next
portion is the location of this box and
so 62 is half of 124 but it's in the
negative Direction so if that was Zero
then our box would be starting at the
origin and going 124 mm to the right I
think what we want is we want that box
to be created and then we want it to be
shifted 62 mm to the left so that way
it's centered 62 is half of 124 and in a
similar fashion we're going to do the X
and Y location as well so minus 55 is
not quite centered but it has A+ 12
offset and minus33 is again not quite
centered it's got a minus three offset
and this free had Vector 001 what this
is this is our orientation now I
deliberately removed or left the
orientation out of my comment because
all of our orientations actually I
shouldn't say all almost all of our
orientations as we design this thing are
going to be designed so that they align
with our uh you know fundamental axes so
the 001 says this box has a normal that
points straight up if this was anything
else then the Box might be oriented in a
different Manner and we do that but it
makes the math a whole lot more
difficult so I want to keep it easy for
myself and keep everything oriented in a
very rectangular fashion so that's what
that function is so let's run it and see
what
happens nothing I got nothing what's
going on here well see we've created the
object but we haven't display the object
freeat is really really picky so it
wants you to tell it to show us the
object to do that we need to use the
part show function and I've included
here and it's going to show this object
that we created frame you can see right
there and I've given it a name that will
show up in the table of contents let's
run
this okay things look a little bit
different um here's a previous window
where there's nothing the next one has
something and I can even see in my um
list over here that it's showing up in
the list of objects but I don't seem to
have anything Well turns out I'm zoomed
in a little bit too much if I zoom out
slowly aha here is my box so I wanted to
show all of it at once I don't want to
have to zoom out all the time there's a
command for that there it is this will
force it to fit the object in the
current View and when we run it look at
that automatically centered in the view
so now I'm looking at a rectangle but
what I buil is a 3D object and in the
fread UI I can tilt and pan this so I
can see my object in 3D space which is
wonderful but I wanted to show right
away well there's another I can tell it
that I want the default view to be
isometric and here's the function to
make that happen let's try look at that
perfect isometric view now it defaults
to this you know gray color I have the
ability to change that color let's try
that as well and here's a command right
here we just Define it color so it works
in the RGB sense so it has 20% red 60%
green and 80% blue I can put these make
these numbers whatever I want to get any
sort of variety of color let's see what
this looks like and that's a lot nicer
to look at a pleasant blue box in our 3D
space now we need to cut a portion of
this box way so that our PCB board can
fit inside so I'm going to use the
dimensions of this board to determine
how big we're going to make that cut so
it's X Dimension is 100 y Dimension is
100 and it's Z Dimension is 1.6 now the
really critical thing to remember is I
can't use the exact dimensions as is you
see this object is going to be 3D pred
which means there's going to be real
plastic involved here so if I created
this void at exactly the same dimensions
of this board which is 100 by 100 by 1.6
it actually won't fit because the
plastic has thickness to it so I have to
consider that and not only that it's
there's a thickness in the X direction
there's a thickness in the y direction
which for my printer is the same luckily
but there's a thickness in the Z
Direction which for my printer is
different than X and Y thicknesses I
know this is complicated but it's
essential it's it's essential that you
know this as you start designing this in
Python the cool thing though is you only
have to figure it out once and that will
be consistent for your printer and
filament selection if you change your
printer or change your filament you
might need to change these numbers you
will have that's exactly how I figured
out my what I'm calling to make sure
that this works thing about this guy
though you kind of treats me like an
idiot but it's just to like keep it like
it's good but like
[Music]
yeah
bro they just don't know me man
I don't even want to use
um wait I think I did I see this bro the
editing on this was so good no a
satellite that aims to study clouds to
make more accurate weather forecasts and
reliable climate predictions has blasted
into
orbit 3 2
we can do
[Music]
that oh yeah these are the Russian guys
I
[Music]
think bro the Russian memers are so
funny I don't know what it is but
they're like they're so
funny oh I kind of want to see that that
sounds sick
dude e Zur does so much cool
robotics miniaturized robots have become
more intelligent in recent years driven
by the emergence of smaller sensors and
Computing
platforms however to transition these
robots from industrial and research
applications to Everyday Use cost is
also a crucial Factor especially for
multi-root applications so far cheap
miniaturized robots have proven
remarkable capabilities such as obstacle
avoidance and autonomous navigation even
in very confined spaces however tiny
robots were not capable yet to achieve
collaborative simultaneous localization
and mapping due to the high complexity
of this task for the first time we
propose a distributed slam pipeline
which enables a swarm of robots to map
an environment without relying on any
external infrastructure enabling ability
to over 100 robots mapping with tiny
robots became possible due to the
release of miniaturized depth cameras
which provide a 64 pixel
resolution mounting four cameras in
different directions enables
omnidirectional depth perception
therefore enabling
mapping our mapping pipeline works I
like that it shows the field of view
thing with this little animation here
therefore enabling
mapping our mapping pipeline works on
any robotic platform that has radio
communication 360 depth cameras and a
processor that is powerful enough to
accommodate our algorithms
let's see how it works whenever a robot
reaches an intersection it steers
towards the Direction with your robots
when it passes through a corner it
acquires a local submap called a scan it
stores the scan and sends it to the
robots with higher
IDs similarly the next robot behaves in
the same
way since it pass through the same
corner it uses an approach called Skin
matching to determine the transformation
that align it scan with a scan of robot
zero this mechanism will later serve to
correct and align the maps scan matching
applies to scan pairs from either the
same robot or different robots then the
robots continue exploration using the
same
approach while flying the robots model
their trajectories as pose graphs which
are connected by scan matching
constraints using these constraints the
system optimizes the pose graphs to
correct the trajectories
then by projecting the depth
measurements the map is obtained and
this example can scale to larger swarms
in areas now we show how our system
works and feel using a swarm of four
drones which collaborate to map the
environment without relying on any
Central base station there is no GPS and
no external aid for
localization using Ultra wideband the
robots estimate distances between each
other and communicate their relative
positions to detect and avoid collisions
what a freaking cool thing
[Music]
man dude I love robot swarms they're the
best for
yeah I don't know
I kind of always wanted to watch one of
these guy one of this guy's
videos this show you how to visualize
the high frequency cross talk you can
signal on the simple aruin after that I
will show you some ways on how to reduce
the cross
talk if you're new to this Channel and
don't check out the YouTube l in the
description dude that's actually
sick I don't actually know what this
heat map is
of and actually like I don't even know
the preface of like why this is a
problem which I show you how to install
all the apps all the apps that I'm using
this video are absolutely free even for
commercial use let's now start the
simulation process you can download the
K file that I'm using from the link in
the description we will inject the step
function into the power supply line and
then we will check how the H field or
magnetic field is progressing through
this board if you want to simulate
across for different frequencies you
have a lot of options for example you
could inject the sine wave or all goian
signal anyway in this video I will just
use the step function if you subscribe
you will be notified once I also use the
other injection methods let's now start
with the simulation process as first
step let's open free Cut 0.19 now let's
open the free Cut to open EMS mro once
again if you're new to this channel the
YouTube installation tutorial video is
in the
description sadly the first time that
you open the macro the import from KET
buttton is great out Simply restart the
marro and the button will be enabled now
check this check mark and let's import
the kit
file once the input is finished the
report view will show an all done
message now switch back to the main
window
freeat expand the copper fuse object
Mark these two
items copy
them and paste them outside of the
copper fuse
object now change to the part
workbench and click on
Union after the Union is created Mak
Look So
Easy now Mark the PCB object and create
the simple copy of it as
well delete all other objects so we end
up with just these two
parts let's now create an airx [__] that
I will make it 1 mm larger than the PCB
in every direction
I will just rename the copper object to
copper and rename the PCB to
fr4 let's now Mark all objects and set
transparency to 90% so that we can have
a look inside the components now make
another copy of the airbox and call the
new box field the this will be later
used as our magnetic field probe I will
make it 0.1 mm thick as I just want to
measure the cross section of the field
you could also just keep it the same
size as the airbox in order to get a
three dimensional field around the
PCB I will just increase the height of
the airbox by another millimeter so that
the field probe can fit
then I will add another field gr between
the top and bottom layer and also one
why so many
steps the next step is to insert an
injection Port I will inject the step
function here between the ground pad and
the VCC pad
you can change the cor mpcb thickness in
Kad like
this the import tool will import the PCB
based on the layer STI information of
the KET
file we are now done with our component
placement let's go back to the free Cut
we are based on the layer
I'm I'm
M you can change the copper mpcb
thickness in K like
this the import tool will import the PCB
based on the layer stick information of
the kit
file we are now done with of our
component placement let's go back to the
free Cut to open EMS marro and work
through the tabs we will skip the first
tab let's go to the grid Tab and create
the
grid dude see this is one of those
things are just so cool it's one of the
two of these real big Legacy software
systems just stitching them together
means perfect electric conductor and
will be used for our
copper in the excitation tab we will add
the step
function in the port settings tab the
exitation direction is important we have
to inject in each direction as we apply
a field instead of a voltage here is a
hint on what value you would have to
insert into this
field we will skip the lamped part tab
you could use it if you would for
example want to Define resistors
capacitors or inductors in the probe tab
we can Define many different probes like
voltage current electric field H field
and also J field which we can use to
measure the surface
wait this guy he's only modeling the
copper you can create plots in time
domain as well as in frequency domain
but be aware this is an open source tool
and as in many cases it is full of bucks
so often you will have to edit the
generated code to fix errors
let's now adjust the simulation
parameters I will only simulate the
first 20,000 steps we will set the whole
outer boundary of the simulation spml
which means perfectly matched layer what
it does in simple words is to make all
signals pass through it without
Reflections and hence it rise to mimic
and extension into Infinity let's now
assign all the parts and generate the
code wait what
[Music]
[Applause]
oh before we run the generated python
script let's first open it and edit some
things
as the St function is not correctly
generated let's edit ourselves and let's
reduce the hate of the field probes to
zero this is just because I don't know a
way yet how to easily create the
perfectly flat 2D object in
freeat let's run the pat
script after a few seconds a 3D preview
should appear once you close the preview
the simulation will start if it crashes
with this error message it means you
didn't save the freut project both the
settings file and the freut file have to
be saved in the same folder
once the first two samples were
calculated you can preview them in power
viw for this go to the output folder and
type in powerview into this
field once you click open you will be
redirected into the correct folder right
away I will just open one of the fields
change the color representation to H
field you can use this button to change
the color
range let's also import our traces
I wonder how long it took it to
simulate and scale them down by thousand
so they have the correct
size dude this stuff is so cool
man this is so awes now make the age
feel slightly transparent
as you see the H field is not well
contained and we see a lot of cross talk
so what can we do to reduce the cross
talk I would do a full redesign but for
that you have to know what you're doing
so before that let's try some simple
things
first if you look at injection point you
see that the VCC line passes under this
track but there is no return current
via for a two- layer PCB the best layout
Style with the lowest possible emissions
looks like this every single signal
should have a return current via on
every side of it whenever another signal
passes under it and this is how it
should look like if only two signals
cross sadly this is often not possible
because the PCB size is too small but
then at least use this layout style for
all high frequency and analog
signals without moving things around the
only place I can add the Via is here I
already know that this is not good for
the RX I line but anyway let's proceed
here are two more crossings that should
have received the Via but at least I
added I don't really get the point of
the vi let's have a look at the
results well as you can see it helped a
bit but it's not really a game changer
so what else can we do let's try via
stitching every free point of the PCB
without using our brain to much or
simply out of hopelessness this reminds
me of my first years at work and I know
that this never really helped so I guess
this time it won't be any
different well again it helped maybe a
bit but still kind of useless so what
else can we do the distance between top
and bottom layer is 1.5 mm simply by
changing to a four layer board and
filling the two inner layers with ground
we can reduce the distance to 0.2 mm
so the ground thing would be almost
eight times closer than with the two
layer version of the PCB but be aware
without rearranging the whole design
there are still some signal transitions
from top to bottom without vs for the
return current even without the
simulation I know that the signals will
pick up some noise and we will be able
to verify that in a bit and also there
are still some signals that don't have a
ground next to them let's now compare
the H field above the PCB for all the
versions as you see we have some
improvement but hey this can be much
better in the next videos I'm going to
show you how to improve it by a big
margin
cool the thing is I I'm more curious
about the heat I feel like for me it's
more about the heat simulation not the
cross talk although obviously cross talk
is like way more
important for like real
people
Okay so what's on the docket let's
see okay so we're going to rewrite this
code yeah so this is sort of a high
level thing see if we can get the test
case working
I don't even know what kind of
simulation we need to do I guess what
I'll do is I'll um like for the square
and the ring I'll just or at least for
the square we'll just have one of them
hooked up to a wall basically so fixed
and frictionless or
whatever honestly I haven't done that
too much and anyways then we'll just put
a load on the other side of
it and then we'll have to do a
comparison with a
um do we have the step file in
here this is the real step file right
yeah and then this is the sliced okay
cool and then these are the G's what's
up my
G
okay
for
for for
bro I need like I need like a tall boy
LC Croy for real need like a
e
for
e for
[Music]
okay if it's just F we just drop it
right and since it never puts f
at the start yeah didn't we do something
like
that
yeah right oh yeah we never got
that we never got that
um I I don't I even
know
whatever okay so just
oh okay these are all
good wait let's just do this
okay so we
have
okay don't we
right okay so let's just merge these
let's just write let's just run this
it's not even that
hard okay
um do we already do
this G
sare no F Dot
gcode
GST okay so this is all right so this is
where we're at
here I wonder if I put like Q in here
[Music]
um I wonder how it's coloring those
whatever okay so at this point we're at
zero extruder wise relative zero
okay so now all we need to do
[Applause]
dude why can't I think right now
let's just start from scratch bro it's
not that hard okay
does okay
so yeah GST
so what's G right now okay great G is
equal to
gst1 uh and let's uh this this is fine
we're I'm down to do
this right because um
and then we can also do
this
and
uh
this okay so
okay so let's just be the computer again
so we're at 0000 0 0 okay
now now we're at
that okay then we go to
two and this
what what do we need to do
[Music]
wait
um how do we merge on
this no we oh yeah this but um the
condition that Cur is greater than zero
is not the condition this is
wrong um
this
is last
pass okay
um yeah so actually no it's
if e
found
because there's no way that it should be
greater than
zero if this wasn't there so
put this up
here there two now or
actually right we going to keep it as is
then we going to go okay but we need to
we updated it but we need
to um so if extrude okay so then the
code is just if
extruding oh then all we need to do
is set the we just need to
um well let's uh let's add this cuz
we're going to need to add this no
matter
what but uh the for
wait
what well we should just be able to do
this right
okay so if we're
extruding if e was found and we're
extruding okay so if extruding this is
so
simple uh all
PS push all PS the tupal of last uh copy
last
pa uh copy Cur
pass I think that's it
right um
what do we need to put in there just G's
right
wait are we really extruding for that
many pretty
much okay so that's it
um so yeah
but
PS okay
so so now we need to write that to a to
a Json file or
something um
[Music]
let's look at the layer changes
it stops printing
okay
so how do we want this to look like we
just want it look to look like
uh
paths a b
A2
B2 something like that or why don't we
just have why don't we just get rid of
all that we just a
list okay so
uh um
wait
uh oh crap
okay
perfect except for the fact that this is
all
wrong
because wait
what wait why is that wrong
oh wait no it's just
um wait why is it
it should only push if you're extruding
this is
92 what
um okay let's say you don't find
eone so if e is not in it like it's not
then extruding is false then it should
just
oh but you still wait no
whatever let's just filter out the ones
that
um just filter okay
wait
uh filter
X2 X1 not equal to
X2 258 okay
oh wait not
Foo real
okay okay now let's open up
python oh I hate reading f in Python
it's so
stupid with open blah blah blah can
what's the one what's the
oneliner fantastic
wait let's do this it takes so long it's
always so slow I don't know why it's so
slow but it's brutally
slow okay okay
um copy the full path of this
copy
path it's
this okay so
now what was the command
um
well first it's going to be
can we try
this wait but that's not right we need
know the splits oh wait no
no no no no no no no no no no I'm I'm
dumb uh we just need to keep this as is
so we just need to
do
um points that upend
um or wait why don't we just keep it
like this so
um make pipe of Doc and let's just do
this 0 to5 and this is going to be app.
Vector
of
d0
app.
vector
D1 let's move
this but let's uh
whatever let's comment this
out let's comment this
out and let's see if this is going to
work I feel like it
should this would be so
sick and it was
fast wait can we do
again to
100 oh 100 kind of blows it
up there really shouldn't be a
nonlinear growth here there it should be
fine we don't have to force kill
it oh it did it no way we got to hide
all these planes though look at all
these
PLS wow okay wait so now we just need to
make sure that all of
the okay so now let's just
um oh wait so wait so uh datm
plane
datm plane
do can we try that wait can we do we get
a do we have a datum plane no we don't
all right so let's do
this see if it
crashes wait I should have done with
three or
something bro I didn't think it was
going to work
oh wait
um I mean that's that's almost
it so now what we need to do is first we
say this assumes that any part that you
give it is a like a single
thing all right so let's run the entire
thing we're going to close it and reopen
it
m
e
e e
okay let's go so we got it we did
it the thing is I don't really know
what's up with this so I want to
actually open up so I don't know what's
up with this but okay first off can we
okay let's just
um well okay there's kind
of yeah but the problem is these are
actually
disjoint so that's not going to
work I think we need to I think we need
to rewrite I think we need to make the
algorithm work properly for generating
paths well actually technically it is
all one solid but body I don't know what
this is about this this doesn't look
right but technically we could can we
just control a wait hold on let's just
try to
do and search
fuse oh there's finite element modeling
in
here part probably in part design
oh tool pathing that's
cool
uh how do you do that I don't know how
to do
this can you do
wait can we click on
them wait does it highlight which
one this is body s so let's do body
s body six
I don't think it did it
though how do you do a
fuse oh
wait no yeah oh wait but did it keep is
that what it
is on wait oh no no it got rid of
them body
five oh it's not as nice dude whenever I
do these projects it's never as nice as
I W in the end like like it just kind of
sucks all right but can we look at the
gcode first um or not the G-Code but the
the output that m 3 MF I don't know if
that's what I'm looking for
though all
right let's just slice it again I mean
our our slicer settings are have not
changed uh test Square ring Square r
ring
slice I don't know where it got that
other one
from I feel like it
um I don't know where it got this from
honestly I mean it's definitely I don't
know
should we run it
again it's also kind of odd to me that
this you know what we could do
maybe we could just
postprocess uh the the
pairs and just look at
if if subsequent ones
are okay
okay full P
or okay so for C and CS
real
or uh let's just do this
okay if um
okay if
C oh wait wait let's just
do oh wait no yeah what am I talking
about dude why did I do both condition
that's stupid as uh it
uh
so if the next if the if I 2 is equal to
CS real I + 1
one
um uh how do we do this basically
okay wait
um I just say
this okay I have some uh uh data in
Julia and basically it's
um it's a list
of
Tuple a a length to Tuple with uh like
coordinates in it and basically okay I
want a function that
um okay so what each element in the list
represents is a like before position and
after position of where the 3D printer's
extruder is moving while it's actually
extruding material so what we want to do
is figure out if the second coordinate
of one of these pairs equals
the first coordinate of the the
following pair then we basically want to
group these together so that we
know which contiguous paths there are
so I feel like I could do
this for
[Music]
uh let's see if it
works
what uh
oh
nice okay wait
but I wonder okay wait I want to let's
um
can I just delete these
bodies
from I feel like this is like scaled or
something like this has got to be the
inner one like we don't see the inner
one wait no but
it happens for the whole thing except
for the first
layer I feel like it's just missing them
or something I don't
know we're definitely not getting them
all oh
yeah should we uh
wait actually can we try to open
that oh it did make a
skirt oh hey it's right
dude it's right my code Works nice but
like it's too slow to be
useful for
I wonder okay let's try to
combine let's try to combine like body
like what is this this is
body but what body is it
body three let's try to combine body
three
with body
230 31 so body three so let's do a fuse
where do we get a fuse Union like two
okay this and 231
okay wait what what was this BP thing
bp. fuse make
fuse okay and now what how did it do
it oh cool
so we're going to do
body
uh
O3 and
231 and I want to see an
error nope undo can you
undo you cannot undo these python
commands
oh yeah look at these that's interesting
it does it does a little stop
there that's not what the material
actually looks like
though all right can we figure out
what's going on here what is
that we need some insight into what
oh like why is it doing that that's not
in the code or maybe I mean it's
it's I'm just it's so hard to manage
using so many different
cads I guess it does do
that I I guess it does that but like
what the hell is it doing that for
all right I'm kind of running out of
steam to be honest what was this8 hour
stream it's sort of works
oh yeah did I add benchmarking to the
read
me so this we
did oh
no the contiguous uh
I don't think I don't know if this works
what what is this called again
all right lowkey want to do that though
so now let's see let's look at the
python code
again because instead of line
segment
um okay right now the code that
basically generates
a a sweep from point A to point B with a
specified like pre-programmed profile uh
makes a line segment but I'm trying to
generalize it so that it can hand so
that the uh the additive pip that it
makes which is basically a
sweep um does uh not just a single line
segment but actually follows potentially
a path madeup of multiple line segments
oh wire dude wait does this work let's
try a wire
sweep dude what if this works
huh that was
easy wait see that's what I'm saying
though oh but that's that's fine dude
wow that's so goofy that looks so
silly
oo okay
all right I'm going to go on a walk and
then I'm going to finish this
thing for
for
for e
oh
for
e
for for
he
he for
for
for for
[Music]
oh
for
for for
sh
for
for for
gentle
of
let's get
[__] for
all for
be
for
for for
okay it took a
while
so um yeah so wait path from points it's
just like strictly better
actually yeah let's just do
that but the thing
is okay wait let's
um try to put it in place
of where does it make the line segment
creates
line um
what is path feature path feature is
wire I don't know why it renames it
path feature name path I mean yeah it
should be wire but um in here so we're
going to
replace create
line where does this get called this
only gets called down here so that's
fine so you can paste
this and then change this to
this and except this needs to be like
that actually wait
wait okay so wait
uh don't do that right um wires that
Jon she is that what it
was I wonder if it's any faster but
actually wait can we just do
this let's just hope this
works uh FV
presumably I did it
error oh wait oh see hey that's nice
line Constructor create path from point
wait but why did it seem to
work
here this is so goofy that it like
you're like
what so that
worked maybe it's the pipe
part oh wait
okay what about
now no okay it's
still points is this oh you know what
it's probably
wait make
pipe oh
okay it didn't need to make all of those
but let's just take the uh let's just do
a um
wait wait but what we want to
do oh wait no no no but what am I
talking about
dude uh uh wait oh wait wait wait wait
okay hold
on um wires okay so
now it's still a bunch of
those so now we just need to make it
into a list of
points Okay so
I I don't even know what to
say so we want to take
um don't we want to just take
the okay
okay then x's. push
append
um is that going to work
I don't know python at
[Music]
all oh wait this doesn't
work okay
okay that's good we're good with
that so now we just want to
do list
map app.
Vector
D actually wait we just want to do this
[Music]
uh let's
see what is going on
I didn't actually test any of this so
wait first off it's this okay hold
on we're
good where is
it oh okay nice oh
yes okay it didn't do it
though it didn't do the make pipe part
it's probably because there's oh wait
um do we need to do this let's just do
it manually so we do an additive
pipe on let's see body
one uh double click this added pipe
cannot you selected must belong uh
okay let's just move the path into
there oh my god dude this program
actually
sucks oh
wait
oh wait but can we just oh oh oh hold on
so what we want to do make a shape
binder
on this
path is that going to work I feel
like let's just see if that works so now
we have this shape binder so what do we
need to do now we need
to for
oh yeah
wait oh
Jesus how do you just add the whole
thing no way
dude okay so there's so you got to you
got to
um now just say
okay dude this program is literally so
stupid
why is it
failing because of
this let's try again and a fatal error a
fatal error I hate this
thing why
though oh
wait wait why is it doing that
is this
flat no but it is
there why does it do
that I like that it just doesn't uh
doesn't listen to me
oh that was easy it defaults to the
whole
thing okay so we kind of need to revise
a bunch of stuff
though okay wait
so shape binder empty so that
works so wait let's just not do any of
this shape Bender
thing wait but we need
to oh we need to do this for
the okay
but when we create the additive
pipe that's the spine but we don't want
this we
want line feature I think
is it doing it I can't even tell
[Music]
I feel like it's got to be
faster where is it bro I can't find
anything
wait it did
it but it it it does these weird
things did it do that in the other
one what do I want to test that I just
want to make the
wire okay so all I need to do is make
the wire
create path from point so all I want to
do is create path from
points
of and then I want to say um
okay let's just try
this I hate that it's so
slow it's
only yeah
okay wait but we need the sketch
now let's just do the sketch manually
because it's so easy so first we need to
go
body
this this
this normal to Edge this this then
this is sketch
guy okay then we do this wait
gr
okay um oh this is going to be big undo
that okay close this now we want to do
uh the pipe we're ready for the pipe and
we just need to sketch and then object
and we're going to select
this no we're going to select this
uh
[Music]
uh-uh why dude why I hate this program
so
much okay
I thought I had one that did it all wait
can
we no I guess
well I think in that
case I don't know all right whatever